# Self-Critique
## Background and Ambitions
### Sept. 16, 2014

For this project, the objective was to state our background and ambitions
while also learning about the tools for web design. For example, using
Git/GitHub for version control and saving our work, markdown, HTML, CSS, and
using a text editor + the command line. Starting this project, I felt I had a
pretty good grasp on all the tools and was not concerned. One of my goals for
the project was I wanted to make sure my HTML and CSS were valid (also a
project requirement, but wanted to do so for my personal benefit). I also
wanted to ensure my actual writing was solid and easily understandable, as the
content is also very important when reading and writing on the web. In short,
my background involved talking about the classes I am currently taking, where
I am in my educational career, as well as where I am in my professional
career. My ambitions were for the class, for the school year (fall+spring),
for the next 3-5 years, and for my life.

Overall, I think I did an above-average job on the project. Instead of writing
the plaintext version of my background and ambitions, I chose to use Markdown
and add some formatting and links. This helped setup my HTML page as I already
knew what the heading levels and other elements would be. When actually
writing the HTML, I worked in my favorite editor Sublime Text (3) and made use
of the autocomplete features it offered to get the page structure down. I made
use of some HTML5 structure elements such as the `<main>` and `<header>` tags
and also split up the background and ambitions with `<div>` tags. Once I had
the page structure right and had perfected my content, I implemented a two-
column layout which appeared on screen sizes larger than 1024px, using media
queries. My CSS default is to make it a single column in two rows, and then
the media queries change to two columns depending on the screen width. I also
used normalize.css to ensure cross-browser compatibility. The background image
was added to make the page look less plain, and it does have that effect when
comparing it with the Markdown file.

On the other hand, there were some areas I realized I was weak in. First, even
though I knew about HTML5, I did not remember or know there were all the
various structural tags available, so I had previously used `<div>` tags for
the frontend code I was developing. Adding these new tags helped make my code
more readable. Another weak point I found was in how much time I was
allocating to spend on the project. The majority of the work I did was during
class time, which says I need to put more effort into the project outside of
class. Finally, though I did test it on the latest Chrome and Firefox
versions, I could have done more cross-browser testing across all screen sizes
to ensure my work had a positive viewing experience. Using normalize.css
helped a bit, but it serves a different purpose than a CSS reset, which would
have standardized all tags to have the same visual effect. With a CSS reset
used first, I could have defined my CSS further and had more control over the
experience.

Considering both the positive and negative points of my project, I met all of
my goals. Both the HTML and CSS I wrote was valid (cannot speak for any
external resources used), and I did take some time to ensure my actual
background and ambitions were written as I intended them to be. Some
challenges were faced, as mentioned above, and I hope to continue overcoming
them in the coming weeks with future projects. This project did not feel that
challenging to me, it just required some additional effort in areas I had
previously neglected. Regardless, I am happy I got the chance to share my
background and ambitions - I hope to learn about others' when we have class
presentations next week.
